---
title: About the Internet...
description: Random thoughts about it
type: page
---

You know the trope of the guy *plugging into virtual reality*, almost literally just jacking in Matrix-like? I feel like we're already very deep in that nowadays, like it's crazy. What's crazy is that I get to work in an industry that's all about building stuff **inside this reality**... That there's an industry that pays well, where you're paid to build virtual pages that are viewed by millions of other *connected* people.

I was born before the explosion of the Internet, but computers already fascinated me, so I've always known about it. It was too far, inaccessible; too adult, and too geeky even for me. But by age 12, I was a regular user of the Web and I was happy as hell.

On there, *in* there, I had found a world full of answers. And most of it was free: it was just a web of people sharing stuff. They got alhold of this new way of broadcasting a message to the World: it's not radio, it's not telephone... it's some digital craziness is what it is! They jacked into the *World Wide Web* and shared content. Man, that's what the Internet was about.

Now, I'm old. The Internet obviously grew grew and... became something else. It grew up, and now it's ultra powerful. It's everywhere. It has obviously replaced many things, to some extent: to use my own example as an anecdote, I don't watch TV anymore, I don't listen to the radio, I don't have a newspaper subscription (although I receive [Nature](https://www.nature.com/) every week! yay), I don't hand-write on shit (nothing that *matters* at least), I don't go to the movies, etc.
The Internet is everything for me! With this power must come great responsibilities but the Internet as a technology isn't truly separate from us: we still have the power to reign it in. We should never let it lull us into a state of complacency nor should we any other technology. Humans should wake up to the reality that their technological reach is tickling weird part of the Planet and stranger part of the human psyche. It's up to us to claim that space for ourselves.

My feeling is that money talks, and it's way too loud. On this blog, you'll read a lot about how advertising is really *fucked up*. You probably already know that instinctively: fuck those ads before your YouTube videos, between your Instagram stories, right? Ads suck. The advertising industry is a merchant of bullshit. It's coersion, it's manipulation, it's hypnosis, it's misdirection. I work in this industry and I'll make a post about that; but for now, I just want to say that the real problem... guys... is simply wealth distribution. Why is it pulling all that talent? Why can't we fight it? Because it fucking works: it generates piles of money. It's disgusting.

I call myself a hippie, but I'm a big fraud. I worked for the ad industry for a long long time, and it has paid for my lifestyle. Being able to build websites is a great skill to have, for sure; but why use that to sell more bullshit to people? Because money?! Because a lifestyle is important to have? It sure looks to me like this is a choice I made.

Having chosen to become a web developer, I felt the Internet shifting from under me over the years. One year witnessing the absolutely staggering rise of Google<sup data-note="(which honestly, I was amazed by at the beginning)">[*]</sup>. Another year the rise of Facebook. The Internet is being taken over by huge silos. We're now tracked everywhere we go, every site we visit. If you're logged into Facebook, they get your name, and your friends. They target ads with crazy accuracy, yadda yada! We all know that, right? Right? What can we do about it?

Can't put the genie back in the bottle: kids are on youtube, teens are on tiktok, adults are on twitter and facebook. We're all connected, and *manipulated*. Yeah but we're only manipulated by ads, it's cool. Nah dude, it's not fucking *cool*! I wanna stay far away from anything that tries to manipulate me!

Shit... listen to me rant about the Internet! When you read the first paragraphs of this word-vomit, I sound super nostalgic of an *older, better* Internet. This is why I feel really old, man: I'm still fully employed working on those damn websites, but I understand nothing of what this beast is becoming. It would be great to talk to other folks who have personal websites, but those must be few and far between. Obviously they would probably be working in the industry as well; otherwise they would have used a service like those *easy-baked* website-makers. Sometimes I would love to be much more underground and just be a guy who makes websites for mom and pop's stores, their neighbors and their dogs, and help foster an online community by working on tailor-made tools, you know? I wish we could reclaim the Internet as it was: having a presence online we you could communicate however you wanted. Why rent a space on a third-party ad-riddled service like Facebook's?

There's something great about a place where everybody can communicate freely. But could it instead be public? Couldn't it be open-sourced? Maybe the next step is a state-sponsored, totally end-to-end encrypted, low-power usage, locally-federated, well maintained, not-for-profit, widely cross-platform... search engine and messaging app? I don't know.
