---
title: Hypocrite
description: Trying to find my Ikigai
type: page
---

## tl;dr

1. worked for ad agencies most of my life
2. dislike advertising and marketing and don't want to have anything to do with it
3. feel like I should put my money where my mouth is

## intro

My job is to build websites, and applications[*](though I haven't built any application yet... I need to look into this space haha) and who's gonna pay me to do it? Advertising agencies. As of 2020, advertising has been my game and agencies need dudes like me to build their client a website quickly and efficiently, insert a bunch of Google Analytics trackers up in that bitch, and sell it for a pile of money.

I mean... it works! This website will catch eyeballs “world wide” and the insight they'll gain from all the users clicking here and there will allow the client to adjust their service or product accordingly, and rake up all the profits. And I was one of the people who made this happen.

## so?

When I was studying the web and programming, I wasn't thinking about who would require my services. I just wanted to make websites. Nowadays, I wish I could use that skill for a more respectable purpose than selling more bullshit to unsuspecting fellow humans.

Hence this feeling I have of living a somewhat *hypocritical life*.

## cognitive dissonance

You'll hear/read me say/write stuff like:

> “open source is important, collaboration is great, non-profit is the best”

...but the reality of my life is more like:

- never contributed to any open-source project, ever
- never helped anyone on Stack Overflow
- never built a website for a non-profit (if I did, it was *via* an ad agency)
- gladly accepted the money my employers paid me for those built-in-a-rush websites

To be fair, I don't think I'm in the minority. Most of us are quite busy during the day, and exhausted by 5pm, so few of use will have the passion, time, courage, or the *balls* to jump into some open source project[*](also, I have a baby girl now, so time is incredibly precious 🙏 )

I'm honestly in awe of how good some open source projects are. However, those are most likely sponsored by companies that profit from a) the actual open source tool being built, b) the free advertising of having their logo on the Github 'README', c) the talent that they bring onboard their team because of the number of devs who'd love to get paid to work on such a project

## to conclude

It's a work in progress, but I'm searching for ways to reduce the cognitive dissonance generated by not helping the right folks with the skill I have developed. I'm looking for my [Ikigai](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ikigai).
