## December 18, 2020

- got that hyperapp powered coodle (code doodle) going
- gotta talk a bit about this schema builder, let's see if I have this right
- could be nested
- recursive
- start with a `template`, with available blocks
  - a page template has "enabled blocks", an array of references to blocks

`11:09am:`

- managed to get to something halfway decent
- it's all in one file, but I'm surprised at how quickly I'm getting used to writing VDOM shit with hyperapp's syntax, and it sort of works okay
- the "no local state" issue is stumping me, because the editor then "shares" the state with the rest of the app, so I have to find a way to make all of this more modular

As for the nestable, recursive, cyclical nature of this form... I don't know how go about it.
The idea is:

- I could use this interface to generate the editing interface itself?
- or at least, figure out how to:
  - be able to nest a component inside another
- I was thinking the whole "add a component" thing could be a component, like a registry of components that can be added
  - then adding a component of type **adder** (which would accept params like *which components are available to use in this*) allows for adding components at that level
  - a component can itself accept an **adder** component as a child
  - then it can contain any number of components, those that are "available" for the component
  - this builds the edit interface for a particular "admin" page?

- then yeah, you use the default **adder** component, to add, say:
  - a **drawer** component
  - the `children` prop itself would be of type **adder**, allowing for adding the specified availabe fields for drawers, like `text`, `markdown`, another `drawer`, an `image`, etc.
  - that way, you compose the page any way you want, using components with the data you want?

That's my current proof of concept, of course right now it's all kinds of fucked.

I think the props for the UI needs to live separately from the actual "props" for the components of the page. By the way, the ultimate goal is to produce a JSON that *then* gets passed to all those components, eh? Or maybe it's like... one JSON object per component?

The cool thing about having each component only care about itself, and then referencing the others, is that I could in theory create a `drawer` component inside a `columns` component, inside a `hero` component for one page, and still be able to reference it on another page, thereby using it as-is, with the same properties.

The modular/recursive model is definitely something that needs to be the absolute basis of everything.

I'll give it a rest for now.