# Orbiter

In fact, the center of the viewport serves as the main unit. Then, equations of motion will be able to be build around that center point. Using Newtonian mechanics' equations, I'll write some gravity simulation, and actions you'll do on the website will be creating "blobs" of matter that will then orbit around this center. But, you know... that could be even more subtle like the center "heart" is the surface of the Earth, and I simulate just throwing "satellites" around the Earth, or asteroids (like little boudlers), and simulating what would happen to a mass of particles (the Earth, the "HEART", of pure love nonetheless) that gets bombarded by asteroids.

Don't know where to start and frankly I'm so toasted I can't lift a finger. But I can type like crazy, so I'll just explain to myself the ways I could implement this thing. Let's say, ok, I've got a point in space. The center of the screen. Now, I place a mass "point" of value... man, I don't know? In Newton? In kg⋅m⋅s−2; that's *“kilograms per meter, squared* for all your anglophones. Ok. But let's be clever here. It's gonna be in "kilograms per pixel, squared". I've just "weighted" the viewport space unit. Now let's do math, let's cook with fire. This point gets assigned this new value of a gravity M<sub>💛 , the ball of pure love energy.
Each new little body in space (in pixels). Ok let's use **rem** units now just so it's funkier? We'll figure out the details later, guys. Now: creating new objects will be like assigning a mass, and an acceleration.

I've [got my math fucked up](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Newton%27s_law_of_universal_gravitation), but at least I know there will be some `kg`, `kg⋅rem⋅s−2`, `s`, `rem`, and these equation somewhere, hopefully: `F = Mg` and `F = ma`.

EDIT: Or, [maybe this?](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Two-body_problem)

EDIT2: Might have bitten more than I could chew, haha.

`8:21pm:`

Anyway, it's gonna be great when I'll have this one done, man. It's easy, piece of cake. Honestly. I'm not even thinking about doing it by taking into account relativity dude. Otherwise I'll have to model a real black hole and fucking chuck shit in it to see what really happens at the event horizon, or at the singularity, dude! Holy shit dude, singularity!

Man this playlist I'm on is a crazy one bro.[*](Some `Brant Björk`, some `35005`, some `Causa Sui`, some `Colour Haze`, etc.)

## uh?

Cool, cool. So. Fuck the details of the gravity-thing.

The website will indeed be designed to "revolve" around the center mass. The header will be at the farthest distance when tracing a ray at a 45 degrees from the center. No, fuck that.
But I've got a highdea: on transition, fling all the elements with a high velocity and a similar mass, to orbit around the center mass (and crash?): animation would see them spiraling inwards (their vectors would follow the center mass thing? gotta figure that shit out), and I would zoom the elements out so that you could see most of them on screen without them hitting each other (could calculate this!)

But the "HUD" would remain super static (somewhat; I could make it sway with the cursor ever so slightly, especially if I shake the mouse, or "swipe" repeatedly), so that the user can hit the menu button to show the menu.

Just thought that maybe the "incoming" elements could come into the page the same way. Like a crossfade: the "crashing" elements make space for "captured" elements (captured by the gravity well) but then I would stop the animation and use some motion equation/smoothing (by disabling the Newtonian equations, or writing something that would "nudge" each element to their DOM-defined location in the viewport; I would have the center of mass suddenly disappear and immediately replaced by a new, much heavier object, positioned where the element ought to have been all along)

## when I said “actually, let's *not* fuck the gravity thing”

Visually, I could say that each "inner-page" element has to have this structure:

```html
<div class="asteroid">
  <div class="asteroid__surface">
    {{ content }}
    <div class="asteroid__center"></div>
  </div>
</div>
```

So that I make `.asteroid__surface` disappear with a fade-out or/with a zoom-out (`opacity: 0; transform: scale(0);`), while I add a `background-color: var(--color-asteroid);`.

Followed by a... I'm thinking: add a pseudo-element in the middle of the element that pops by ... wait:

```scss
.asteroid__center {
  display: none;
  position: absolute;
  top: 50%;
  left: 50%;
  width: 10rem;
  height: 10rem;
  transform: scale(1000) transform(-50%, -50%);
  background-color: var(--color-asteroid);
}

.state-gravity-on {
  .asteroid {
    overflow: hidden;
    position: relative;
  }

  .asteroid__surface {
    opacity: 0;
  }

  .asteroid__center {
    display: block;
  }
}

```

Then, what you do is you enable gravity, and the surface disappears, and the "center" of the element is filling the whole space (hopefully) of the element (its boundaries; delimited by anything that can overflow from its visual DOM bounds, I guess) Cool, then, you animate (using `reefer`) this center... hmm, if it's with reefer, I'll need this as a actual element. Anyway, figure this out later! Cool.

So, at the center of this element, there will be an asteroid. All the same size, and color (`color-asteroid`), and be assigned a velocity right before `gravity` is turned on again. That will fling them to orbit around the center mass; the velocity should be just enough so that the asteroids orbit for, like, half a second before crashing into the center. To quicken the crash I could make the center swell up a bit (or I could zoom the whole thing? like, camera zoom into the center mass?!?!?!)

Cool. I've got a concept. Let me scribble and doodle.

Right. Of course, all of this for a damn website. But! I like the transition possibilities, if it's done right!

- infinite scroll, where the new items replace the old by appearing from nowhere. By the way: the transition *HAS TO WORK WHILE THE USER SCROLLS*: which means, if new items appear, their "target" destinations will be where they should have appeared (if using "classical fade in"), but, because I've scrolled back up a lot, the destination "black hole" might end up too far... That's if I make the asteroid appear from the viewport location, though. But when they appear, they appear and then lock on to their black hole. Oh, I see... they would be momentarily attracted by the center of mass: if I "herd" the incoming asteroids by scrolling up, and they get too far from the black holes... Wait. Why make the fucking things follow the center of mass once they've appeared? Hmm, because I made it so I could modulate the gravity "perceived" by the asteroid, and reduce its influence as I crank up the influence of the black holes, so there should be no issues. hahaha.... what?!
  - if the center of mass doesn't exist because it's not a "FULL PAGE TRANSITION", just make them try to orbit the mouse cursor? or last tapped position?
  - meh

`9:37pm:`

Can't achieve that effect? Don't worry. It's still cool. I still need a redesign.