# November 2020

## November 23, 2020

`1:07pm:`

- I wanted to go over my notes and figure out the most important next steps and things to focus on

`3:51pm:`

- will try to get those demos back online...
  - actually, they're old and all fucked up, so I'll pass for now
- not sure I want to serve the static files using the Express server?
  - if it's just static files, would nginx handle that super easily on the remote?
- hastily extracted the notes into files, splitting by month
  - but I still have to write something in this file?
  - no.. I'll just use the archive

## November 22, 2020

`8:15am:`

- Capitalist America is basically a money-making labor camp, right?
  - make money to survive... or else
- sometimes I take stupid notes... don't know where to write it, so... here it is
- I tend to spend a lot of energy on this here website, which is cool; but I don't fill my monthly playlists as much as I used to!!

`10:40am:`

- got a minute: I will review my notes before taking more!
- so... what's next? most pressing things to fix before moving on:
  - error page handling: 404, 402, 403 whatever, 500, 502 etc.
  - offset menu on some viewport sizes... ouch!
  - I'm ready for a slight redesign but that's a big refactoring session and I'm not gonna do that now
    - would be nice because I could move the files around and figure out the best file structure as I progress!
    - for instance, take the content out of "src" I think
    - and co-locate js,css,html as much as possible

`2:13pm:`

- gone fishing for buggies!
  - did a little redesign of the blog index just to tidy shit up a bit

`8:05pm:`

- it's my time! gonna upload all of this tonight I think
- can't figure out the 404 just yet because that's server-side, and things are a little different once on the live server. I can't dive into that tonight but it's definitely something to tackle sooner rather than later.



## November 17, 2020

`1:10pm:`

- other post ideas:
  - one about **quitting Facebook**
    - my story, the why I quit, what after?
    - what do I miss? why it matters that I quit?
    - why I feel crazy for it, but some other times, I feel like everybody else is crazy to stay on it
  - one about **note taking**
    - how it's constantly being reinvented
      - bloggers like me giving their thoughts about it
    - how it helps staying focused, staying open-minded
    - how it helps the scientific mind, how it helps with "rubber ducking"
    - how it builds a knowledge archive that's invaluable when — in the future — dealing with similar problems

`1:14pm:`

- by the way, about that note taking thing:
  - it's wonderful... and I'm going to try and use extensive note taking habits to document everything I do during my work
  - builds an archive of what I'm struggling with, how I've solved it, how I could have avoided it, etc. etc.
  - it's invaluable!!!

`1:26pm:`

- found out about the MDX project a while back and I'm intrigued because that's pretty much what I was attempting to build on my own
  - BUT!... there's something I don't like about it...
  - my system is clearly inferior in many ways; but attempts to be much more minimalistic and aimed at making content editors more comfortable with "components"
  - perhaps it's not the way to go, and a GUI is the best move
    - so a GUI that outputs a JSON, and associates it with a component?
    - that's the promise of a parser that "reverses" it: shows the GUI from the markdown, ready for editing
    - edit stuff, hit "preview"
    - see the component with all the good stuff
    - isn't that what Project Gutenberg was trying to be?
    - I need to delve deeper into that, I guess... but fucking Wordpress, dude!

- the ideas are:
  - developers are shitting on Wordpress, and Drupal, and any CMS
  - whipping up your own CMS is a long project, and pretty much doomed to fail
  - **if trying to make it into a behemoth** -> making it fully managed through a GUI (dashboard)
  - most companies will have to hire **specialized** people, or at least give them a long formation to teach them how to edit the content (probably given by whoever's building the website)
  - why not provide an environment that's just enough to let tech-savvy people enter content easily
  - maybe just **expose** some pages to a fully-fledged GUI so that a non-tech-inclined person can make corrections here and there, but not more
  - ... I'll go back to that thought, but it's a start

Going through the "utils" on the blog, and on my boilerplate for Exponent...
Here are some ideas that pop up:

- a `onDismiss(someDOMNode, cb)` util
  - if the user clicks outside `someDOMNode` or presses the `Escape` key
  - then fire `cb()`
    - which should contain some logic like a `someDOMNode.classList.remove('state-active')` or something like that


## November 15, 2020

`2:37pm:`

- not a lot of energy this week and even this weekend... I'm resting :)
- I thought about my website's design and I will have to change a few things
  - more legible body font
  - center the content...?
- thinking about "discoverable" or "explorable" websites
  - make the visit interesting with hidden things, micro-interactions(?)
  - what lets you know where you can/should go? the menu? main navigation?
    - elements on the page?
    - sitemap? a menu that looks more like a diagram, with hierarchies, colors
    - "you are here" dot for active menu item
- i need to write blog posts now!!
  - one about living **a hypocritical life**:
    - thinking you're green but you're consuming like a maniac
      - meat! wasting food! having a child!
    - thinking you're successful but you're riding the advertising money wave
      - fuck ads; but they gave me a career...
      - advertising is coersion, it's manipulation, it's hypnosis, it's misdirection, etc.
    - thinking you're a good person but involuntarily do "bad" things to other people or animals
  - one about **the promise of web design and web development**
    - and how it got hijacked by... apps, social media, ads, "silos"
    - we now have "virtual strip malls", with big companies pushing their products and choking the competition
    - we can do better, and we should do better



## November 9, 2020

`8:39am:`

- still doing some experimentin' and I don't know if I should embark on that for now
- I have other things to worry about :)

`9:04am:`

- I'm a maniac.. I'm questioning every practice, I'm thinking about weird roundabout ways of doing things, and I'm loving it.
  - you know what I hate? having to install packages via npm for my frontend app after pulling from a repo
  - and then having to figure out which version of node/npm I need
  - and then blah blah blah
    - if you know what you need, can't you just install it and track it in git?
    - that way if it changes, you know who the fuck updated it, you know WHAT was updated
    - and, you don't need to install any fucking thing: it's just sitting there
    - and you do the version management on your own, in a markdown file? anyway, the lib always has the version written on top, right? so you know where you at
  - how would that work? why the fuck are we using npm for anyway? tracking the version? ease of use? what?
- should focus on other things...

`11:16am:`

- work **SUCKS**, dude
  - not sure I need that shit in my life


## November 8, 2020

`~8am:`

- for content, what about doing something like... put everything in the hierarchy
  - with a combo of `content-type` and `template`, I define what kind of content it is?
  - or maybe... yeah, that would work?
  - maybe the type is the only thing I need, and I can infer the `template` in the code?
  - `experiment` -> uses template `experiment.html` but uses the data for `page` content type?
  - this is something for a future version

`8:51am:`

- ok. so this is my own little *CMS*; but there are other options being uses out there
  - [11ty](https://www.11ty.dev/) looks nice
  - [Toast](https://toast.dev) i've just heard about this one and it sounds good

`11:21am:`

- the `live` page doesn't work on production, I'll have to investigate that sometime
- fixing the issue with the files folder; I'll try to whip up something that exports some shit
  - got a proof of concept thing working; it's cool.

`12:50pm:`

- probably will deploy tonight; I'm getting very good at whipping it my server
  - it's nimble and I've moved it to another user's home directory on my server with almost no frustration during the process, which is crazy... doing server configuration used to be my *bête noire* but these days I'm focusing a bit of my energy on it so that I regain control of my Universe (the web)
- on top of all the 404/500 error handling I have to figure out, I'll modify how transitions are handled so that a timeout redirects to a 404, with the option to try loading the requested page again
  - I guess since BarbaJS makes us stay on the current page when the request times out, I can hook onto a "loading failed" event and display an error message (instead of nothing, and instead of landing on some specific 404 page)
  - the specific 404 page is when loading a non-existent page from the server returns nothing...
  - hmmm, if I configure the server so that it returns some 404 html file, I'll have to see if BarbaJS can get the response code, and if it's 404, I manage that error then?

`7:02pm:`

- coming back to `use: json`;
  - maybe that could be used to store info for "components"

```markdown
Lorem ispum

[something
  data: this-is-the-data-we-want.json
  other-property: Hey, this is cool
]

Dolor sir amet
```


## November 7, 2020

`9am:`

- did some work but I still have to deploy
- server-side work is daunting... tried to set up an FTP access for me to upload files easily, but configuring the server is a bee-eye-tee-see-aytch!
- okay so... I've discover I'm clearly not alone in this endeavor, and plenty of like-minded people are out there still building personal websites! I'll link 'em all on the website. I'll try to connect with some of them, if they deem me worthy of joining their network of high-achievers... maybe there's a free spot in there for a tech-savvy stoner hippie motherfucker like me?
  - https://datagubbe.se/subversive/ <- !!!
- I'm thinking of a slight redesign, it only for the content part of the blog posts, so that it's a little more legible, just easier to parse and read
  - I could test-drive that "shortcode" idea a little deeper, to help with foot/sidenotes, expand/collapse, etc.
- it's good enough for now, I can rest easy if I don't push new shit on the blog before long...

`3:16pm:`

- weird issues with WiFi on my iphone; guess I'm ready to be a system admnistrator
  - growing increasingly paranoid of what kind of data is circulating on my network, and how "encrypted" it is, if at all...
  - done! only had to reboot the router... it's BEGINNER LEVEL SHIT, BRO! GIVE ME A HARDER THING TO TROUBLESHOOT!
- officially gone from instagram; next up is twitter!

`7:05pm:`

- looks like I don't handle 404 errors (any errors, in fact... I think)
  - this is gosh darn CRITICAL PRIORITY, man
- anyways, this should be handled by... nginx? it's straight up HTML, unless we're talking about the API, but that's gonna be on another port, perhaps
  - https://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/howto-nginx-customizing-404-403-error-page/
  - also interesting to plug in: https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-set-up-password-authentication-with-nginx-on-ubuntu-14-04



## November 6, 2020

`~5pm:`

- will try to implement the missing things listed in yesterday's entry
- ~~also... gotta import all the comments from the "old" site~~
- I need something to zip shit with on the server (db exports, and other)
- I need to parse CSVs
- I need to think about eventually... ugh... moving toward some preact-generated website?

`8:57pm:`

- those breadcrumbs are weird, I'm not a fan of the previous/next button placement, I don't like the rigidity of the design, and that HTML menu needs to go... I need a better menu.
- ...
- I need to chill, too

`9:55pm:`

- for sure, add some console.log in there... I'm kept in the dark when the build completes

## November 5, 2020

- super cool. it's live.
- things to do next:
  - in menu, add:
    - github
    - ...twitter?
    - other?
  - in help, add:
    - website policy
      - As sole webmaster, I expect the comments left on this website to follow good manners. Any content that I deem offensive will be moderated.
      - Don't expect your comments to be kept online forever. Think of them as a post-it note you leave on that page. If you write something that need to be kept online forever: write it on your blog, then link it here. It's easy.
      - privacy policy
        - this is how you will leave data on my website (data that I can identify as being *yours*):
          - posting a comment with your real name
          - ...that's it! I'm not tracking you in anyway. All the data that I "keep" is sitting comfortably on your harddrive. It's not "the cloud" or anything, but it's clever enough.

    - github source for the website
    - also add a position-fixed help button on bottom right?
  - extract all the "music" links into a music page
  - extract the last few links I've posted into the bookmarks page
  -

## November 4, 2020

`11:58am:`

- lots of ideas flying around in this document, I need to be more thorough and add them to my "Pipeline" board, on Notion
- gotta add a `manifest.json` to enable PWA shit... I have to try that out
- gotta improve the homepage visually... I have ideas but no time
- also gotta finish the structure of this website to focus on other funky ideas :)
- I'm hungry

`3:06pm:`

- as I'm churning out weird minimal code for my website, I'm also researching React and VueJs and other SvelteJS whatever... and so far, React is still the better choice to me, because of my familiarity with it and the fact that it's pretty much free of "magic"; it's just JS
  - but the main package is quite huge; I will instead try to use `preact` to begin with
  - I'll see if I can do without using hooks
  - should I jump back in Redux? or is it overkill?
  - I have to remember I'm building a very simple website here, which is basically a collection of static documents
- eventually though, I want to be able to inject fucked up component, with mad interactivity
  - tables, filtering systems, websocket-ready interactive UIs...
  - but is the building process involved in making those features really *helped* by modern framework?
    - and I mean... in my case, I don't think so

- using a modern framework immediately requires a dev to handle more things, it adds complexity;
  - it should help us create better things, not make us work harder to get there
  - so it depends on how complex the things we want to build are

`3:23pm:`

- a markdown file
- I fetch it
- get frontmatter
- parse content for components
  - `[[` is the start, look for a `]]` in later lines
  - extract the lines in between
  - it's yaml
- grab what's after the `[[`
  - it's a path to the component's view
  - grab that component
  - feed it the yaml (transformed to a JS object)
  - render it (statically)
- replace from `[[` to `]]` with the HTML generated by the component
- parse this as markdown content

problem with this is: the components aren't nestable, but that's... ok, I guess
this is pretty much feature parity with "flexible content" in Wordpress

- to get it to be nestable... just use the data?

```markdown

Lorem ispum dolor

$[](
component: ui/experimental/test
  data:
    what: Hello World
    okay:
children:
  component: ui/some-other
    data:
      yay: This could work?
  children:
    component: ui/deeper-component
      data:
        no: No data?
)

Sit amet consectetur

```

- I think the problem now is that I have to figure out a way to handle that data
  - should the data in the parent be accessible to the children?
  - should it be optional?
  - what about collision with the data object's keys?
  - etc. etc.
- but again... what's the use case? why do we need nesting here?
  - maybe for a grid component?

... or?

```markdown

Lorem ispum dolor

$[](
component: ui/experimental/test
  data:
    what: Hello World
    children:
      component: ui/some-other
        data:
          yay: This could work?
          children:
            component: ui/deeper-component
              data:
                no: No data?
)

Sit amet consectetur
```

- what about JSON instead?

```markdown

$[]({
  "id": "ui/experimental/test",
  "data": {
    "what": "Hello World",
    "children": [{
      "id": "ui/some-other",
      "data": {
        "yay": "This could work?",
        "dude": "maybe",
        "number": 20
      }
    }]
  }
})

```

`8:47pm:`

- hmmm, I've managed to do what I set out to do
- it... sort of works, so I'm gonna test drive it soon
  - looks like it should **not** work, you know?
  - it's... the solution to a non-problem, but at the same time... there's a certain charm to it
- ok... will I deploy tonight? haha

## November 3, 2020

- continuing from yesterday's last bulletpoint, about the component system:
  - I had already tried something using React, that uses components to build a static version of the website
  - and then attempts to *hydrate* the app with some other state, if there is such a thing
  - I abandoned it because... let me think about that; yeah, I had issues with trying to pile up too many layers of technology
    - React, with Recoil for state management, and then I needed some sort of router functionality...
    - with the current setup, I have HTML views, with the bare essentials, and BarbaJS works for me to make transitions look good
    - maybe if I can think about it deeper, it will make sense
      - maybe if I mount a React "app" on every "component", passing the necessary data
      - linking all those to a state management singleton?

- none of those improvements (using React, or Vue, or a state management lib) would fix the main issue of **content entry**
  - I need (or anybody who writes content for a website) to have a very simple, easy to understand, minimalist way of adding content
  - I want to write some text in a markdown file, following very basic formatting rules (which I think should become some sort of standard, if it's not already; not sure whether "normal" people use it every day, but perhaps one day they will, haha)
  - I want to be able to **add modules** that enhance the page I'm editing:
    - I want to be able to do that **easily**
    - I wish for it to be **text-based** also, and easily **exportable**
    - it would probably have to plug into whatever component implementation I'll have chosen:

```markdown
Lorem ispum

{{> ui/experiment/test }}
{
  "some": ["json", "object", "for", "data"]
}

Dolor sit amet
```

- this uses HandlebarsJS style partials, and I would grab what follows it immediately and use that data
- or I could go full custom, and in a middleware, use that syntax to plug it into whatever framework I want:

```markdown
Lorem ipsum

[[blocks/leaflet-map
  latitude: 75.342423432
  longitude: 80.98234983
  zoom: 12.123123
]]

Dolor sit amet
```

- in this case, I would
  - detect that `[[` means the start of a **block component**, and ends with `]]`
  - isolate the name of the component `blocks/leaflet-map`, and its data
    - the data here is formatted as `yaml` -> this is to match the frontmatter (a syntax that the editor must know a little bit about already)
    - format that data as JSON (just like the frontmatter)
  - grab whatever component is in `block/leaflet-map` and pass it the data
  - render it as HTML and insert it into the markdown
  - render the markdown (rendered HTML should be used as-is)
- see if I can hook into the `marked` parser and lexer, and add a `component` token, that matches:

```
[[some-path
some-yaml: hello
]]
```

- if the markdown parser gets that and then runs some sort of middleware that does the component magic (using whatever... VueJS, lit-html, React, preact, Elm, who cares)
  - then we're in business
- I'll have to take that into some other project anyway... maybe another branch, or another repo altogether

`9:41am:`

- been toying about websocket earlier this year, and it was pretty good, but now I'm thinking about digging a little deeper in there
  - thinking about making the comments a little more... ephemeral, maybe a chatbox... I don't know, dude, I'm all over the place
- for the blog, and pages, I also need to set more metadata:
  - created on
  - modified on (timestamp)
  - status (by default 'published', but also 'draft')

`12:12pm:`

- seriously need to work on colocating the files... html+css+js, to see more clearly what it entails
  - I feel like the disconnect between how each of those files are compiled is the problem
  - the CSS-in-JS (and HTML-in-JS of modern frameworks) solution means that the JS is the true master
  - I could go back to using that... which means working on yesterday's `7:08pm` idea:
    - components are HTML templates handled by a JS framework
    - they import their logic AND styles
    - they're fed page data
    - if they're "dynamic", then provide something to *hydrate* them with up-to-date data
      - could be handled by a VueJS `mounted` function?
      - fetch the data then?
      - think about the comments section of a post: how could that work?
      - think about how NextJS/Gatsby does it:
        - first it goes through the compiler: needs data coming from the builder (the `taskis/posts.js` file?)
        - then in the browser, it needs to rely on data fetching
      - it would not use `exponent` anymore, but straight up VueJS
      - the HTML is static, BarbaJS fetches the necessary HTML file by URL
      - then, just like we'd refresh the components on route change, we can re-enable whatever component is on the page, based on VueJS? or React?
      - in barba's function, use something like `ReactDOM.hydrate(<MainComponent />, mountDiv)`
        - the data passed to `<MainComponent />` has got to come from somewhere; might as well pass that data via... the whole JSON in the html?!
        - or I gotta write something like BarbaJS, but for my use case:
          - based on the URL, fetch the necessary `template` + data by AJAX
          - or let the template change depending on the data (that's from the frontmatter anyway, and the shortcode, if there's any)
          - inject the data, let the app figure out what to display
          - with a cool script, update the `<head>` and we're golden
        - basically, the root component takes the data, and conditionally displays a template
        - that template is the markdown wysiwyg thing, but would also be augmented with something that grab components from the content?

`1:37pm:`

- glob pages, posts, extract data + URL (url is fundamental, id is too, but for other reasons)
- go through each url, and feed it to the **root component**, along with **data**
- render that into the html **layout**
- when loading that page, you get all the data
  - the extra data needs to be fetched, if it's supposed to be dynamic
  - only fetch when you're in the browser environment
    - that's in the `data` object, under `env`
- I'll try to describe if in more details, and maybe whip up a prototype... I would like to try VueJS with this.


## November 2, 2020

`8:45am:`

- not hoping for this day to be a better day, but I feel more relazed this morning so that's cool...!
- I was thinking about co-locating the HTML, CSS and JS components together, and reviewing the whole structure to see if it makes sense for this kind of project
  - now that I have a tighter grip on how HandlebarsJS works (or at least, on how I'm wiring everything up in my project) I think using the component as a basic unit is feasible
  - there's no *one-way data flow* or any *vdom* implementation yet, but I believe with the way I've set up things it would be trivial to swap out the HandlebarsJS html implementation with something else (Elm? VueJS? lit? who cares)
- we're looking in [Parcel](https://parceljs.org/) for our bundler at work, and I thought of trying it out in another branch of this repo
  - a bit too much hidden magic for my taste, but if it keeps everything clean, I'm for it
  - also it provides many cool things out of the box that I don't think I'm quite ready to tackle yet?
    - code-splitting
    - Hot Module Replacement
  - maybe I could implement those in my webpack config, but it will get messy...

- anyway, this morning I'm fixing the breadcrumbs and maybe I'll deploy right after?!?!?!

`9:48am:`

- gotta add back support for `dotenv` and set it up on the server before deploy (ugh!)
- gotta review the npm scripts so that `dev` (or `start`?) runs the server + watches the files & rebuilds using webpack
  - the `build` or `prod` script will build the website's HTML and run the webpack production build

`3:50pm:`

- man I've been doing a BUNCH of things... and it sort of works!!
- I can see myself publishing this website sometime soon!

`7:08pm:`

- I'm thinking maybe using something like VueJS for the component layer might be more flexible, especially once I'll try my hand at that "block" feature
  - I wanted to have something that would allow some easy *plugging in* of components inside of the markdown
  - it could be that "shortcode" idea I had, but it would require some sort of pre-parsing of the markdown, and I don't like that
  - it could be something like... custom views, Vue components with props and shit, but it would probably bother the Markdown parser also...
  - the point was to be able to have a markdown file as long as I want straight-up text, with minimal markup, and then augment with a sprinke of custom components I could drop in at any place, like:
    - a map component
    - a form component
    - an iframe to some experiment elsewhere on the website
    - an expand collapse section?
    - audio player for music, spotify, embed something
    - anything else that requires special markup, and that could be passed parameters and data
  - ...


## November 1, 2020

- url shortener:
  - if post has `shortpermalink` in frontmatter
  - export the page twice:
    - the usual URL based on the folder structure, and file name
    - and if we need a permalink, the link based on the param
      - e.g. `shortpermalink: abc` would export to `https://fredmercy.ca/read/abc`
      - `https://fredmer.cy/abc` ?

`8:06pm:`

Horrible fucking day today!

But I managed to finalize the resume page... just gotta link to it real quick.

Ok...homepage almost ready. Resume done. Gotta fix the breadcrumbs and I should be ready to deploy the first version.

